SF-15


The Bond Market Association

Uniform Practices/Standard Formulas

C. Defaults
The following description of default analysis is intended only for the analysis of credit-sensitive
securities (e.g., subordinated securities such as B-pieces, mezzanines, etc.). Standard prepayment
analysis projects cash flows assuming that unscheduled payoffs are composed of both voluntary
prepayments and defaults. When the following default methodology is being used, voluntary prepayments and defaults are projected separately.
1. Mortgage Cash Flows with Defaults: Description of Basic Concepts
A loan in default is defined as one that no longer pays principal and interest and then
remains delinquent until liquidated. Thus, delinquencies that cure are not included in this
computation.
When a loan first goes into default, it is included in New Defaults for the given month. New
Defaults are projected forward using the Monthly Default Rate and the prior month’s
Performing Balance before subtracting the current month’s scheduled amortization.
The prior month’s Performing Balance is the total balance of all loans that have continued to
make full monthly payments through the prior month. These, plus Loans in Foreclosure, are
the loans that survive into the current month. In the current month, they will either default
(New Defaults), prepay (Voluntary Prepayments), or merely amortize. As with New Defaults,
Voluntary Prepayments are also projected forward using the prior month’s Performing
Balance. However, Voluntary Prepayments are computed after the current month’s Scheduled
Amortization is subtracted.
Expected Amortization in a given month is the amortized principal that is expected to be
received from all existing loans, including those currently in default that have not yet been liquidated (Loans in Foreclosure). If there are New Defaults, then Amortization from Defaults is
the amount of principal that is not received from the borrowers, and Actual Amortization is
the amount of principal that is actually received from the borrowers. (A loan’s original amortization schedule continues to be computed even while it is in foreclosure.)
Analogously, Expected Interest in a given month is interest due on the balance of all existing
loans (including Loans in Foreclosure). Interest Lost is the amount of interest not received,
and Actual Interest is Expected Interest minus Interest Lost.
Usually (but not always), Servicer Advances are made. If principal and interest are advanced,
the amount of principal advanced each month is equal to Amortization from Defaults, and
the amount of interest advanced exactly compensates for Lost Interest. The result is that
investors receive all Expected Amortization and Expected Interest regardless of the amount
of New Defaults and Loans in Foreclosure. New Defaults, however, are still calculated based
on the prior month’s Performing Balance only.
Liquidation of New Defaults is assumed to occur after a fixed user-specified number of
months (Months to Liquidation). If the liquidation results in a loss, the loss is taken in the
month of liquidation, treated as a loss of principal (Principal Loss), and the amount of the
loss is based on the Loss Severity and the unpaid principal balance of New Defaults when the
loan first went into default.
02/01/99
All rights reserved. Reproduction in any form is strictly forbidden. © 1999 The Bond Market Association.
