SF-19


The Bond Market Association

Uniform Practices/Standard Formulas

Notes for clarification:
a.

“New Defaults” are the product of the default rate and prior period’s Performing
Balance.

b.

“Voluntary Prepayments” are the product of the prepayment rate and the prior period’s
Performing Balance, minus expected amortization from performing balance.

c.

Voluntary Prepayments and New Defaults are constrained by the following condition:
Actual Amortization + New Defaults + Voluntary Prepayments cannot exceed the prior
period’s Performing Balance. (See Section C. 2.e.)

d.

“Expected Amortization” is computed from the sum of the prior period’s Performing
Balance and Loans in Foreclosure.

e.

Loans in Foreclosure do not include any loans that are liquidated in the current month.

f.

Expected Amortization and Amortization from Defaults are not computed for loans in
their liquidation month. (This is a consequence of (d) and (e).)

g.

“Actual Amortization” is computed based on the prior period’s Performing Balance
minus New Defaults.

h.

Principal Recovery is constrained by the following condition:
If Amortization from Defaults is advanced, the maximum Principal Recovery amount is
the loan balance when the loan went into foreclosure minus the cumulative amortization advanced until the loan was liquidated (i.e., the Amortized Default Balance in the
liquidation month). (See Section C. 2.g.)

i.

Principal Loss is constrained by the following condition:
If Amortization from Defaults is advanced, the maximum Principal Loss is the
Amortized Default Balance in the liquidation month.

j.

Default rate is set to 0 for the last n months before the scheduled final maturity of the
pool where n = Time to Liquidation.

4. The Standard Default Assumption (SDA)
A Standard Default Assumption (“100% SDA”) for performing default analysis will have the
following characteristics:
a.

Rise from 0 to “peak” during the first 30 months of mortgage age;

b.

Remain constant at peak value for the next 30 months (i.e., months 30 to 60 are at peak
value);

c.

Decline from “peak” to “tail” over the next 60 months (i.e., decline begins in month 61
and reaches tail value in month 120);

02/01/99
All rights reserved. Reproduction in any form is strictly forbidden. © 1999 The Bond Market Association.
