SF-38


The Bond Market Association

Uniform Practices/Standard Formulas

D. Assumptions for Generic Pools
l.

Mortgage Maturity
As noted in Section B.3., amortization of fixed-rate mortgage pools should be based on the
most recent weighted-average maturity information (WAM or WARM) provided by the
issuer or guarantor at the time the calculation is performed. The published WAM for a pool
is the WAM as of a particular date. If the calculation is being performed as of a month other
than the month to which the WAM applies, the WAM should be incremented or decremented by the number of months prior or subsequent to the WAM as-of month, respectively.
If the issuer or guarantor of a particular pass-through security has not released an updated
WAM, the most recently released WAM may be used as described in the preceding paragraph, adjusted as described therein for the time elapsed since the as-of date of the WAM.
If the issuer or guarantor of a particular pass-through security has released neither updated
nor original WAM information, then the remaining term to maturity should be used as a
proxy.
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac provide updated WAM information on a monthly basis. Fannie
Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s monthly WAM updates are as of the current month. Freddie Mac’s
monthly WAM updates appear on its “quartile” tapes.
Ginnie Mae provides updated WAM information on a quarterly basis. The as-of date for the
reported WAM depends on when the pool was issued. For pools issued before the third
month prior to the start of the current quarter, the WAM is as of four months prior to the
month of the quarterly release, as described in the table below:
Month of Data Release
January
April
July
October

For Pools Issued Prior To
Previous October
Previous January
Previous April
Previous July

WAM Information Is As Of
September
December
March
June

For pools issued during or subsequent to the third month prior to the start of the current
quarter, the WAM is as of the pool’s issue date.
To adjust the most recently updated WAM on a Ginnie Mae pool to the current month, the
WAM should be decremented by the number of months subsequent to the as-of month for
the WAM, as described below:
Current WAM

=

most recent WAM update – (number of months between the as-of
month of the WAM and the current date)

For example, to adjust the WAM for the October 1993 tape for pools issued prior to July
1993 to be consistent with the October 1993 factor, subtract four months from the WAM.
For pools issued in July, August and September 1993, subtract three months, two months and
one month, respectively.

02/01/99
All rights reserved. Reproduction in any form is strictly forbidden. © 1999 The Bond Market Association.
