SF-39


The Bond Market Association

Uniform Practices/Standard Formulas

In some cases, the WAM that is released exceeds the time to final maturity of the pool. In
these cases, the WAM should be set to MIN (updated WAM, time to maturity), where time to
maturity is defined as the time between the as-of date and the pool maturity date.
For Fannie Mae pools with “same-month” loan concentrations greater than 50%, the original
WAM may be reported as one month greater than the original loan term for a given pool
type. For consistency with other mortgage calculations, the first month of amortization
should be based on the reported WAM.
2. Mortgage Age
As noted in Section B.3., prepayment calculations should be based on the most recently
updated weighted-average loan age information (WALA) provided by the issuer or guarantor
at the time the calculation is performed. The published WALA for a pool is the WALA as of a
particular date. If the calculation is being performed as of a month other than the month to
which the WALA applies, the WALA should be incremented or decremented by the number
of months subsequent or prior to the WALA as-of month, respectively.
Ginnie Mae releases updated WALA information on a quarterly basis, and as is the case with
Ginnie Mae WAM updates, this information is reported with a lag. For pools issued before
the third month prior to the month of the most recent WALA update, the WALA is as of four
months prior to the month of the quarterly release, as shown in the table below:
Month of Data Release
January
April
July
October

For Pools Issued Prior To
Previous October
Previous January
Previous April
Previous July

WAM Information Is As Of
September
December
March
June

For pools issued during or subsequent to the third month prior to the start of the current
quarter, the WALA is as of the pool’s issue date.
To adjust the most recently updated WALA on a Ginnie Mae pool to the current month, the
WALA should be incremented by the number of months subsequent to the as-of month for
the WALA, as described below:
Current WALA

=

most recent WALA update + (number of months between the as-of
month of the WALA and the current date)

For example, to adjust the WALA for the October 1993 tape for pools issued prior to July
1993 to be consistent with the October 1993 factor, add four months to the WALA. For pools
issued in July, August and September 1993, add three months, two months and one month,
respectively.

10/01/2000
All rights reserved. Reproduction in any form is strictly forbidden. © 1999 The Bond Market Association.
