SF-45


The Bond Market Association

Uniform Practices/Standard Formulas

For most mortgage-related securities, the principal amount and accrued interest are
computed as described in parts b and c below. Special procedures for CMO bonds
whose settlement factors have not been released by the time of settlement, and for
Freddie Mac Multiclass PCs (REMICs), are the subjects of Sections F.2. and F.3. below.
b.

Principal Amount
For most mortgage-related securities, the principal amount (or “current face amount,”
or “current balance”) is equal to the product of the original face amount and the current
factor:
PRINCIPAL AMOUNT = FACE * (PRICE/100) * F,
where

c.

FACE
PRICE
F

=
=
=

original face amount of bond
price, as a percentage of current face amount
current factor (factor at start of the payment period containing
the settlement date).

Accrued Interest
For most mortgage-related securities, interest accrues according to the following standard calculation:
ACCRUED INTEREST = FACE * F * (COUPON/100) * (N/360),
where

COUPON
N

=
=

annual coupon rate of the security, in percent
number of days from the first day of the accrual period
(the “as-of ” date for the factor F) to the settlement date
itself. (The day count is computed according to the
30/360 calendar, as specified in Section E.1.)

2. CMO Bonds with Unknown Settlement Factors
a.

General Rule
If settlement occurs in a payment period whose factor is not yet available at the time of
settlement, settlement may proceed using the most recently published factor (F0) in
place of the current factor (F) in the settlement formulas of Section F.1., to be corrected
once the current factor is released. This general rule does not apply to accrual bonds in
an accretion period (any payment period immediately following a payment date on
which no cash payments were made).

b.

CMO Accrual Bonds
For CMO accrual bonds that are traded during their accretion period and settled in a
payment period whose current factor is not available at the time of settlement, settlement may proceed using an estimated current factor (Fest) in place of the current factor
(F) in the settlement formulas of Section F.1., to be corrected once the current factor is
released. The estimated current factor is computed as follows:

02/01/99
All rights reserved. Reproduction in any form is strictly forbidden. © 1999 The Bond Market Association.
