SF-49


The Bond Market Association

Uniform Practices/Standard Formulas

where P0 and Y0 are the price and yield today, respectively, and P and Y are the corresponding new price and yield.
When duration and convexity values are computed which do account for interest-sensitive
cash flows in the above equation, reasonable care should be taken to distinguish these measures from their static cash-flow counterparts. (An adjective such as Option-Adjusted,
Empirical, Effective or Implied would be appropriate.) For example, the Cash-Flow Convexity
of a mortgage pass-through is always positive, while the Effective Convexity is frequently
negative. Effective Duration should never be called Duration or Modified Duration.
h.

An investment of P0 today, resulting in a market value of PT after T years on the 30/360
calendar, constitutes a Bond-Equivalent Total Rate of Return equal to

[ (P P ) ( ) − 1 ] .
1 2T

200

T

0

On a nonannualized basis, the Total Percentage Return (or Actual or Simple Total
Return) is

[

]

100 ( PT P0 ) − 1 .

All cash flows to which the holder would be entitled, as the owner of record during the
holding period, are included. Cash flows not coinciding with the first or last day of the
holding period should be compounded (or discounted, as appropriate) according to a
specified reinvestment rate assumption. In particular, cash flows received on a delayed
basis after the end of the holding period are discounted back to the end of the holding
period using the assumed reinvestment rate.
The Bond-Equivalent Total Rate of Return is equal to the Bond-Equivalent Yield if the
investment is held to final maturity and the intermediate cash flows are reinvested at a
rate equal to the Bond-Equivalent Yield.
The phrase Total Return may be used to designate either the Rate of Return or the
Percentage Return, but the choice of method should be made clear. Quotations that provide annualized rates other than on a bond-equivalent basis should be avoided.
Example: For a Ginnie Mae I 9.0% pass-through with 14-day actual delay, settled on the
issue date, the correct price/yield equation is
P =

CF1

(1 + Y 200)

2 ( 44 360 )

+

CF2

(1 + Y 200) (

2 74 360 )

+ ... .

If the security is priced at par with a term of 360 months and an assumed prepayment
speed of 150% PSA, then

02/01/99
All rights reserved. Reproduction in any form is strictly forbidden. © 1999 The Bond Market Association.
