SF-44


The Bond Market Association

Uniform Practices/Standard Formulas

If the following types of mortgage securities are issued on March 1, and if every full calendar
month is counted as 30 days, then the delays are as follows:
Pass-Through
Type

First Payment Assumed
Due From Homeowners

Ginnie Mae I
Ginnie Mae II
Fannie Mae
Freddie Mac NONGOLD
Freddie Mac GOLD

April 1
April 1
April 1
April 1
April 1

First Payment
Due to Investors

Actual
Delay

Stated
Delay *

April 15
April 20
April 25
May 15
April 15

14 days
19 days
24 days
44 days
14 days

45 days
50 days
55 days
75 days
45 days

No conclusions can be drawn concerning the delay of a principal-only CMO bond, and
hence the ownership period corresponding to a particular payment, absent explicit disclosure
by the issuer. This information is generally available from the issuer for new issues.

F. Settlement-Based Calculations
1. General Rules
For all mortgage pass-throughs and mortgage strips, prospective quotations of yield, duration and average life should be based on the actual settlement date of the transaction or, if
not otherwise specified, The Bond Market Association standard settlement date for the quoted delivery month. However, if the quotations are made later than two business days before
the standard settlement date, for delivery in the same month, then settlement should be
assumed to occur either two business days later or on the last business day of the month,
whichever is sooner. In all cases, calculations involving yields or durations should incorporate the correct amount of accrued interest.
CMOs and Asset-Backed Securities (ABSs) should continue to follow corporate settlement
rules.
Comparisons between current and historical market quotations should be made on a consistent basis (first-of-month vs. first-of-month, for example, or settlement-date vs. settlementdate). The basis of comparison should be disclosed if it would otherwise be a source of
ambiguity or confusion.
a.

Settlement Amount
The amount payable by the buyer to the seller on the settlement date is known as the
settlement amount, net proceeds or total cost, and is the sum of the principal amount
and accrued interest:
COST = [ PRINCIPAL AMOUNT ] + [ ACCRUED INTEREST ] .

* These stated delays would be 44, 49, 54 and 74 days, respectively, under the alternate convention in which the accrual date itself
is not counted.

02/01/99
All rights reserved. Reproduction in any form is strictly forbidden. © 1999 The Bond Market Association.
