SF-43


The Bond Market Association

Uniform Practices/Standard Formulas

E. Day Counts
1. Calendar Basis
The number of days from M1/D1/Y1 to M2/D2/Y2 on a 30/360 calendar basis is computed
according to the following algebraic procedure:
If M1 is 2 and D1 is 28 in a nonleap year (or 29 in a leap year), then change D1 to 30.
If D1 is 31, change D1 to 30.
If at this point D1 is 30 and D2 is 31, change D2 to 30.
Then, the number of days is
N = max {360 * (Y2 − Y1 ) + 30 *(M 2 − M1 ) + (D2 − D1 ),0}

The computation draws no distinctions among business days, holidays and weekends.
These conventions shall apply for both accrued interest and yield calculations on all fixedrate, mortgage-backed securities, unless explicitly stated otherwise.
Floating-rate and short-term instruments may be quoted on either a Money Market or a
Bond-Equivalent Yield basis, following Section G.2. Money Market accounting makes use of
the actual number of days from M1/D1/Y1 to M2/D2/Y2, including the former but not the
latter, with the day count then divided by 360.
2. Delay Days

Delay refers to the length of time from the end of an interest-accrual period to the actual
payment of the interest due. The “stated delay” of a mortgage-backed, pass-through security
also includes the time during which interest accrues, and sometimes the accrual date itself.
Ginnie Mae and Freddie Mac include the accrual date in their documentation of securities;
Fannie Mae does not.
The yield, duration and average life of a pass-through should be calculated and expressed in
terms of its actual cash-flow delay, defined as the difference between (1) the date a payment
is assumed to be made to investors and (2) the date the payment is assumed to be received
from homeowners, assuming 30-day months.
Market practice for CMOs and derivatives has been to use actual delay. The adoption of
actual delay as the standard for pass-throughs, and the continuation of the use of actual
delay for CMOs and derivatives, will bring greater uniformity to the mortgage market.
Delay days will be assumed to be “actual” unless labeled as “stated,” and stated delay should
always be accompanied by a disclosure of the actual delay. Stated delay may also be called,
simply, “days to first payment.”

02/01/99
All rights reserved. Reproduction in any form is strictly forbidden. © 1999 The Bond Market Association.
