SF-5


The Bond Market Association

b.

Uniform Practices/Standard Formulas

The CPR (Conditional Prepayment Rate or Constant Prepayment Rate) model is similar
to SMM, except that it expresses the prepayment percentage as an annually compounded rate:
12

CPR
 SMM 
1 –
 =1−

100 
100 .

The terms “CPR” and “Monthly CPR” have sometimes been used to express prepayment
rates on a monthly basis equivalent to the SMM. This is not recommended, and in the
present document, “CPR” will refer exclusively to the annualized prepayment rate
defined in the equation above.
c.

The Standard Prepayment Model of The Bond Market Association specifies a prepayment
percentage for each month in the life of the underlying mortgages, expressed on an
annualized basis. Thus, 100% PSA (Prepayment Speed Assumptions) assumes prepayment rates of 0.2% CPR in the first month following origination of the mortgage loans
(not the pool) and an additional 0.2% CPR in each succeeding month until the 30th
month. In the 30th month and beyond, 100% PSA assumes a fixed annual prepayment
rate of 6.0% CPR. To calculate the prepayment rate for any specific multiple of PSA,
adjust the annual prepayment rate at 100% PSA by that multiple. (For example, 200%
PSA assumes prepayment rates equal to twice the CPRs from the 100% PSA model, on a
pool-by-pool basis.) In general,
 PSA

CPR = min 
* 0.2 * max 1,min {MONTH, 30} , 100  ,
 100


{

}

where MONTH refers to the accrual period during which the age of the mortgage loans
increases from MONTH – 1 to MONTH. If the loan age is computed as zero subsequent
to pool-issue date, then for the purposes of the PSA calculations, MONTH equals 1 for
all prior months. In the case of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae pools with “same-month”
loan concentrations greater than 50%, MONTH would equal 1 for the first two months
of the pool. For Freddie Macs, these pools are identified by the WALA remaining at 0 for
the first two months of the pool. For Fannie Maes, these pools are identified by the original WAM being one month greater than the original loan term for a given pool type.
For example, an original WAM of 361 would be reported for a “CL” pool that has an
original loan term of 360 months.
These CPRs can then be converted into SMMs according to the formula from part (b.)
above.

02/01/99
All rights reserved. Reproduction in any form is strictly forbidden. © 1999 The Bond Market Association.
